Alright, let's talk about Spring Bean
Scopes. So there's actually seven of them
that we have to work with and so far
we've been looking at Singleton, and this
is the default Bean Scope and in this
case only one instance of the bean is
going to be created in Spring's IoC
container. Now Prototype is another
scope and in this case, you're going to
get new instance of that bean created
every time it's requested. So anytime
there's a dependent object requesting
that, a new instance of that bean will be
created. Now next is a Request scope,
pretty obvious that's going to be within
an HTTP request and of course we need to
have a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext up and running and then Session
is also tied to the HTTP session. So for
a particular session you'll have a bean
available within that scope and again
you're going to need the web-aware
Spring ApplicationContext. Next we have
a Global-session and this is typically
used with a Portlet context and I don't
see too many people using this. This is kind
of a hold over from Java many many moons
ago. So you might run into some legacy
code that's still using Portlets.
I just don't see people using Portlets
much anymore. And then the Application, this is
a fairly recent addition to the Spring
Framework. This is going to be scoped to
a lifecycle of a ServletContext. So I
think as we got to the more modern
servlets having this capability to be
used within the ApplicationContext and
again this needs a web aware context. And
then WebSockets, this is going to be
within the lifecycle of a WebSocket and
that's something I hope to explore later
in the course. Doing some work with
WebSockets. That's a some pre neat stuff
right there. Now you also have the option
or the capability of using a Custom
Scope and the Spring Scopes are
extensible or you can roll your own
by implementing Spring's 'Scope" interface.
I'm not going to get into that. If you
have that need, you can see the Spring's
Java docs for details. It's kind of a unique
need to be honest and in over a
decade that have been working with
Spring, I've never had the need to work
with a Custom Scope but you may have use
case for that so I'm going to just leave
that there right now. So if you do need
that it's well documented within the
Spring  Java documentation. Now you cannot
override the built-in Singleton and
Prototype Scopes of the framework, Spring
is going to prevent you from that. Now
the two most common scopes that you are
going to be using is the Singleton scope
and this is right out of the Spring
documentation. There's such a documentation
for Spring Framework. I'm shamelessly
stealing this image from them but it
does a good job explaining what's
happening there. So if you have multiple
beans, so they're showing three beans on
the left-hand side there and it has a
dependency on the accountDao bean, only
one instance is going to get created and
this is something that you definitely
need to be aware of. I've seen people
have problems with this. Just recently in
the last six months or so I was working
with a company using Spring integration
and they had multiple Spring integration
flows but they only had beans defined as
Session Scope and they had a common
bean shared amongst most multiple flows
and this one bean in Session Scope was
tied to all this and effectively what
happened was in the different flows I
got kind of unpredictable results
because messages of bean routed through
these flows and it's going through a
common object and that common object may
or may not respond to the right flow. So
it caused some interesting stuff. So you
definitely need to be aware of this
when you are sharing multiple components
and how they get wired up. You can get
yourself in trouble but
generally speaking, the Singleton Scope
works pretty well.
Now the next one, the next most common
one is Prototype Scope and that Spring
integration example. This is what they
needed to do, is to create a brand new
bean instance each time rather than
sharing it and so that it gets spread
out and shared which was not good but in
this case you're going to be creating a
new bean instance for each object. So
again on the left-hand side
there we have three different bean
definitions and they all want the
accountDao and when we do the scope
Prototype then you can see the example in
the XML dot definition there, so saying
scope Prototype, Spring is going to
create a brand new instance each time. Now declaring the Bean Scope, you don't
need to declare for Singleton scope that
is the default and in Java configuration
you can use the @Scope annotation and
give it the scope name. That will work
against either the Stereotype annotations. So Controller, Service
Repository, Component, you can use the
Scope annotation with those or if you're
using a Spring Java configuration class
then use the @Bean annotation. You can
use the Scope annotation in conjunction
with that. You can see also the XML
configuration. We just saw an example of
that on the previous slide where we did
have that so you can set the Bean scope
in inside of XML as well.